Steps to Install Docker via docker.io

Update the package index:

sudo apt-get update


Install Docker:
Install the docker.io package from the default Ubuntu/Debian repositories.

sudo apt-get install docker.io


Start and enable Docker service:
After installation, you need to start Docker and enable it to automatically start on boot.

sudo systemctl start docker
sudo systemctl enable docker


Verify Docker Installation:
Check the Docker version to verify the installation.

docker --version


Test Docker (Optional):
Run the hello-world container to test if Docker is working properly.

sudo docker run hello-world

Managing Docker without sudo (Optional)

By default, Docker requires sudo to run commands. If you want to avoid using sudo every time, you can add your user to the docker group:

Add your user to the docker group:

sudo usermod -aG docker $USER


Log out and log back in (or restart your system).

After this, you should be able to run Docker commands without sudo.













To install Docker on your machine, the steps vary depending on your operating system. Here's a basic guide for each:

For Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)

Update your system:



sudo apt-get update


Install required packages:

sudo apt-get install \
apt-transport-https \
ca-certificates \
curl \
software-properties-common


Add Docker's official GPG key:

curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -


Set up the stable repository:

sudo add-apt-repository \
"deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
$(lsb_release -cs) \
stable"


Update the apt package index:

sudo apt-get update


Install Docker CE (Community Edition):

sudo apt-get install docker-ce


Verify installation:

sudo docker --version


Start and enable Docker to run on boot:

sudo systemctl start docker
sudo systemctl enable docker


Test Docker:

sudo docker run hello-world

For Windows

Download Docker Desktop for Windows:

Visit Docker's official website

and download the installer.

Run the installer:

Follow the installation steps. It may require a system restart.

Enable WSL 2 (Windows Subsystem for Linux):

If not already installed, Docker Desktop will prompt you to install WSL 2 during setup.

You can enable WSL 2 manually by running the following commands:

wsl --install


Launch Docker Desktop:

After installation, you should be able to run Docker from the start menu.

Verify installation:

Open PowerShell or Command Prompt and check Docker's version:

docker --version

For macOS

Download Docker Desktop for Mac:

Go to Docker's official website

and download the Docker Desktop installer for Mac.

Run the installer:

Drag the Docker icon to your Applications folder as instructed in the setup process.

Start Docker Desktop:

Open the Docker Desktop application from the Applications folder.

Verify installation:

Open Terminal and check Docker’s version:

docker --version


Test Docker:

docker run hello-world
